feat(licence): add instalation process (#119)
formancehq/docs: docs/deployment/licence.mdx

---
title: Licence

> description: Learn about the different deployment options for the Formance Platform.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to install the EE license.
```

---

> ## Install the Licence using [Helm Global](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/subcharts_and_globals/#global-chart-values)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Install the Licence using Helm Global
```

Author: Some client does not even know what helm global are. Can there be a Bottom page note ?

Reviewer: gotcha. how about rewriting the intro sentence as:

"To install the license using [Helm Global](https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/subcharts_and_globals/#global-chart-values), add your licence token and clusterID to the `values.yaml` file."

> > All [Formance charts](https://github.com/formancehq/helm/) follow the same convention as described below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

> > All [Formance charts](https://github.com/formancehq/helm/) follow the same convention as described below.

Author: For now, The licence is only for the control plane (membership-console-...)

In the near future, The licence setup is comming into the data-plane(operator then stacks)

But i have unified the deployment process (on operator) with helm so that it's the same `global`/-library/-env variable. for every services

If Deployed with Kubernetes:
- Helm and global (Control-Data planes)

With docker
- Use env variables

But @flemzord It's been a while that i don't even talk/ear about docker deployment

> Make sure to add your licence token and clusterID to the `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add your licence token and clusterID to the `values.yaml` file.
```

Author: This is standard to helm

> Make sure to add your licence token and clusterID to the `values.yaml` file.

Author: - Token is provided by formance
- ClusterID is provided by the client and also given to formance (needed to be injected in the licence token)

> Make sure to add your licence token and clusterID to the `values.yaml` file.

Reviewer: We need to specify what ClusterID we're referring to (like, is it Kubernetes ClusterID?)

```yaml
global:
  licence:
    token: "your-token-here"
    clusterID: "your-cluster-id-here"
...
```

### Licence configuration

> 

Reviewer: (still learning about how deployments work, so this is more of a learning question than comment on the content) is K8s the only way to deploy? or is it one of the methods, and this license method only works for K8s? if yes, how do they add the license to other deployment methods?

Author: We could add the env variable which are the same for all services.

| Key | Type | Default | Description |
|-----|------|---------|-------------|
| global.licence.clusterID | string | `""` | Obtain your licence cluster id with `kubectl get ns kube-system -o jsonpath='{.metadata.uid}' (Optional in the operator)` |
| global.licence.existingSecret | string | `""` | Licence Client Token as a secret |
| global.licence.issuer | string | `"https://license.formance.cloud/keys"` | Licence Environment  |
| global.licence.secretKeys.token | string | `""` | Key in existing secret to use for Licence Client Token |
| global.licence.token | string | `""` | Licence Client Token delivered by contacting [Formance](https://formance.com) |

## Operator additional requirement

> You must add the label `formance.com/stack: any` to the licence secret in order for the operator to copy the secret in the stack namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add the label `formance.com/stack: any` to the licence secret in order for the Operator to copy the secret in the stack namespace.
```

### Debug

> Once installed you must see the following logs in any EE pod:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once installed, you should see the following logs in any EE pod:
```
